

The power of self discipline and grit

James 1:2

Self discipline is an ability to control one's thoughts, action, values emotion to achieve a goal even when faced with distractions

As a leader you are to know the way, go the way and show the way, as a leader you should be impactful, showing a way for others to follow
Before you must expect something from people you should have been able to do it
Self discipline is putting your body under subjection FOR YOUR PROGRESSION

Grit, relentless perseverance,
1cor 9:27, Heb 12:11


G-God
R-Rule
I-In
T-Tests

God doesn’t give anything without testing your capability and capacity
Your will not look how you want it, you must employ self-discipline

Things to note:
Self-discovery can be achieved through self-discipline
Grit helps you to gain ground. Sometimes, setback is a setup for your setout
Sometimes, failure is not a proof that you cannot do it, it is a proof that there is a better way of doing it

Every solid product is a product of time (It must stand the test of time)
Time is a proof that a vision is authentic and realistic.
Your end should not end anyhow, there is a way God wants me to end
Don’t use another man’s life as a template to run your own
Everything that must last will take time

JOSEPH:
Genesis 39:9
There is no one greater in this house than I, nor has he kept back anything from me but you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?”

DANIEL:
Daniel 6:10-13
10 Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went home. And in his upper room, with his windows open toward Jerusalem, he knelt down on his knees three times that day, and prayed and gave thanks before his God, as was his custom since early days.
11 Then these men assembled and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God. 12 And they went before the king, and spoke concerning the king’s decree: “Have you not signed a decree that every man who petitions any god or man within thirty days, except you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions?”
The king answered and said, “The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which does not alter.”
13 So they answered and said before the king, “That Daniel, who is one of the captives from Judah, does not show due regard for you, O king, or for the decree that you have signed, but makes his petition three times a day.”


PAUL:
2 Corinthians 12:10 KJV 
[10] Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong.

Phillipians 3:8

ESTHER

Esther 4:16


Don’t show yourself before permission is granted
Patience is a virtue, 

MOSES 
Hebrews 11:24-27


How Do I ensure I Stay in Discipline
Definition fuels decision and determination 
A life that you don’t define cannot be verified and refined

Define the kind of life and future you want to have
Self discipline starts with you defining your future

Your net worth is defined by the amount of impact

LEARN TO DEFINE THE KIND OF LIFE YOU WANT TO LIVE, DON’T JUST LIVE TO LIVE


Proverbs 4:7
7 Wisdom is the principal thing;
Therefore get wisdom.
And in all your getting, get understanding.

Don’t do anything without a definition and understanding of what you are doing

Seek clarity: and know who you are from God’s perspective. Seek God’s counsel on the matter

Stay In God to draw strength from him

Prayer alone is not enough

Strength comes from your action that fuels God’s reaction

Study: 

Every spirit that comes into a man’s life is by education

Seek Mentorship:

There are two fears a man must have

i. The fear of God
ii. The fear of man

A house where there is no order, disorderliness will be the order of the day

A life without a mentor is like mentos


BOOKS, MESSAGES:

Battle for the young- Bro Gbile Akanni
Stepping up- Rev Isaac Oyedepo

Accessing the deep things of God by Apostle Joshua Selman

